Interviewer hell
================

Tech interviewing is terrible, as we all (hopefully) know.

I've been through the interview process at quite a few companies, and
one of the more frustrating aspects is the sheer repetitiveness of the
early-stage technical screening questions.

So, naturally, I began to develop solutions which don't quite match up
to what interviewers are likely expecting. Think of it as malicious
compliance, applied to tech interviewing.

Feel free to use these solutions as you wish.


FAQ
---

**Would you ever actually use these in real interviews?**

Maybe. Probably only if I'd already decided the company wasn't going
to be worth my time, and even then I often just hang up on bad phone
screens.


**But companies *have* to use questions like these to weed out fake coders!**

That's not a question. But: no, they don't. I've run a *lot* of
interviews, and my opinion is that the epidemic of "fake coders" is
vastly overblown. Also, most interview processes these days copy
Google, which admits that its approach has a high false-negative rate
(i.e., they flunk a lot of qualified people), but for some reason
people interpret failing a Google-style interview as being synonymous
with "unqualified". That's a shame.


**Why bother, though? If you can come up with clever solutions like
these, you're obviously qualified! Just give them what they want and
move on to the next stage!**

Thanks for the vote of confidence. But, while I think I *am* qualified
to work as a programmer -- and have been doing so, at companies large
and small, for many years -- I still sometimes freeze up in
interviews. And I'm not alone: `among candidates who get the highest
average ratings on interviewing.io, fully one-third bomb at least one
interview
<http://blog.interviewing.io/you-cant-fix-diversity-in-tech-without-fixing-the-technical-interview/>`_. The
way to fix this is not to put up with it; the way to fix this is to
change how companies interview.


**So work on improving your employer's interview process, instead of
being mean to screeners.**

Also not a question. But just so you know: I *have* put in effort to
improve interviewing at companies I've worked for, and I'm proud of
what my efforts have accomplished. However, the industry as a whole is
still terrible, and sometimes a kick in the pants is what's needed.


**Do you actually write code like this in real life?**

Some of the solutions make heavy use of Python's ``itertools`` module
and functional-programming-ish features, which I'm a fan of and do use
when appropriate. But Python is my language of choice largely because
I like writing readable code; these interview-problem solutions are
just a way to blow off steam and have a little fun.


**I get errors when trying to run your solutions!**

Again, not a question. But try using Python 3. I tested all of these
solutions using Python 3.6.


**I've seen some of these before! Why didn't you credit people?**

All the code in this repository (at least, as of when it was first
published) was written by me without reference to any other
solutions. When relevant I've credited sources for the first place I
saw a particular idea. But great minds tend to think alike, as the
saying goes, and I wouldn't be surprised to find someone else coming
up with similar solutions to stock problems.


**Can I contribute a new question or a new solution to this repository?**

You can open a pull request if you want to. I can't promise I'll
review it quickly, or merge it, since I've got a few repositories of
actual code I'm responsible for, but I always like to see clever and
novel approaches to stock questions.
